---
layout: post
title:  "Plato's Lysis - On Friendship"
categories: Love
---

I read the online publication from MIT's classics department (https://classics.mit.edu/Plato/lysis.html)

## Notes

<p>0. Context</p>
<p>
<font size="-1">
- Plato was walking to the Lyceum from his Academy when intercepted by Hippothales and Ctesippus. Ctesippus complains of Hippothales' praising of Lysis, this boy that Hippothales claims he is in love with.<br>
- Hippothales and Ctesippus invite Plato to some place for conversation with themselves and Lysis and others.<br>
- Classic Plato dialogue. Plato will question his interlocutor to think more about the topic at hand. This often results in both Plato and the interlocutor realizing that they know nothing. This is the prize to Plato--a reward.<br>
</font>
</p>

<p>1. Showing Hippothales how to treat his beloved</p>
<p>
<font size="-1">
- Plato tells Hippothales that a lover does not praise his beloved. A lover aims to keep his beloved and praising his beloved will only make the beloved proud.<br>
- This is bad for both parties since the lover may lose his beloved if the beloved gets such a big head that the beloved will think himself too good for his lover. Beloved will also just be cocky.<br>
- Instead lover should shower beloved with wisdom and engage in philosophy for this is a good that both should have.<br>
</font>
</p>

<p>2. Discussion around friendship with Lysis</p>
<p>
<font size="-1">
- Friendship exists between people alike one another. Good people befriend good people. This makes sense initially.<br>
- Plato claims that this cannot be because people who are alike in the same way cannot offer benefit to one another.<br>
- Suppose you take two people who are both good in exactly the same way. Say for example they both prioritize their health. What benefits does one offer the other? Are mutual benefits a requisite of friendship? Its likely so. Otherwise, if you took someone who was benefiting from the other and the other not benefiting at all, then thats charity not friendship. So friendship requires benefit on both sides.<br>
- Regardless, suppose you took someone and cloned them. Can they be friends if they're exactly alike? I think so--in that they can benefit one another. For example, they can scratch each other's backs. Or one clone can help carry a couch for the other (who is not strong enough to carry it himself). <br>
- Friendship can also exist between people unalike of one another. Suppose you take a male and a female for example. They're unalike in a lot of ways. Yet they may yield benefits to one another.<br>
- Can evil people be friends? No. Evil people do not benefit other people and only themselves. They're selfish. Friendship requires mutual benefit.<br>
- This does not mean, however, that someone who may do bad or unethical things cannot have friends. They may still benefit others in some way. For example, if my friend stole from someone else. I would be disappointed and may try to correct him. I may derive benefit in showing him that stealing is wrong.<br>
- Love does not have to be mutual but friendship does. This is interesting. Both love and friendship are related to desire between 2 parties. By definition, love must have a lover who desires a beloved, and a one-way relationship counts as love. Friends on the other hand ought to be mutual, you cannot be friends with someone else unless they consent.<br>
- I think the mutual friends thing should be challenged. Someone can consider another a friend and derive benefit from this person and the other has no idea.<br>
- Friendship ends up not being defined because friendship doesn't necessarily exist between people alike one another. The case of evil people being a contradiction.<br>
- Plato ends dialogue with Lysis and others on the note that they indeed do not know what friendship is yet they and others think they're friends.<br>
- Last point is interesting--is Plato suggesting that they're not friends because they can't define friendship and instead they just *think* they're friends? Or is Plato just pointing out the peculiarity that they don't know what friendship is yet they would call one another friends.<br>
</font>
</p>

