---
layout: post
title:  "What's in a Passion?"
categories: Musings
---

I'm turning 26 soon and boy did that go faster than anticipated. I graduated college at 22 years old and suddenly now I'm finding myself at 26. And it got me thinking - what the *heck* happened these last 4 years? Aren't I supposed to walk a stage right now and shake some guy's hand?

For the first 25 years of their lives, most folks in America split their lives into the same 3 to 5 year epochs. The first 5 years are all pre-school years (no school, in fact!). The next 5 years is considered elementary schooling, the next 3 dubbed middle school years, 4 years for high school, and if you went to college, another 4 years. After that, the buckets by which we demarcate our lives become less clear. We have our 20s, which from what I've seen, most people really take 3 paths: some sort of graduate training, an intense commitment to their line of work, or a more laissez-faire approach involving socializing and job-hopping. There are exceptions to this rule, of course.

Of those 3 paths most people take in their 20s, graduate training provides a template by which you can demarcate your life. You've completed your degree - congratulations! Or, you've finally become a licensed medical practitioner - time to go save lives! But just like the other 2 paths - this only lasts until its done. At some point, you'll find that structure gone and the only person keeping record of your progress is you. No more organized celebrations recognizing how far you've come and what you've done. 

So that was the first takeaway of this little reflection - you're responsible for your own growth and success more now than ever. That's exciting news! You're granted this autonomy and freedom concerning your own limits. And I truly think no matter who you are, you *can* still live the life you've always wanted.

The second takeaway, however, surprised me. And thats how I now define passion. I use to think passion was this innate thing that just drove you to accomplish the stuff you wanted to accomplish. For one reason or another, you have this "unquenchable" drive to complete something. I think that's just a flatout lie - at least for the most of us. No one's born impassioned to complete something - just out the womb and on a mission. No way. I think its a combination of your circumstances and discipline. 

Let's start with the first item in that list - circumstances. The environment you find yourself in may be incredibly conducive for a particular subject. In the Silicon Valley, for example, a disproportionate amount of kids grow up to be successful in the tech sector. Its not because they were born as engineers and scientists. They grew up in that environment and thus had time to practice that particular skill and likely had a lot more exposure to it than other American children.

The second item - discipline - has all to do with your commitment to that particular thing that you do. You're not going to love your work all the time. You'll probably be indifferent about it as often as you're excited or disgusted by it. Discipline is about dispelling your feelings toward the work in that moment and instead continuing the work. Remain committed. Stuck on a problem and feeling discouraged? Maybe someone else is impeding your ability to complete that work, and thats whats discouraging you - not the work itself. Regardless, you shouldn't let that emotion sway you from the work. Keep this discipline, solve the problem, and you'll begin to feel a connection to your work. You'll enjoy it.  

And thats what shocked me in particular. Passion actually has nothing to do with squishy emotions and has everything to do with unwavering discipline. No one's born to always enjoy something in particular. Every one is born with the ability to become disciplined, however.

For me, at least for now, I think so long as I'm providing a service to my community, whether its locally, nationally, or globally, and I'm constantly challenged (whether its by myself or by the work), I think I can have a "passion" for that thing. I think anyone can. We're all aiming for the same thing: to do good for others. So whether its through deciphering complex codes for the CIA or running a bar for the locals, we all get gratification from knowing that we're helping others and improving ourselves. So, don't worry about whether you're doing the thing that you think you we're "born" to do it. Just do it and do it extremely well. 